The President: Thank you
very much, thank you everybody.
(Applause.)
Thank you, thank you very much.
Thank you, Matt,
for that great introduction.
And thank you
for this big crowd.
This is incredible,
really incredible.
(Applause.)
We've all come
a long way together.
We've come a long way together.
I'm thrilled to be back at CPAC,
with so many
of my wonderful friends
and amazing supporters,
and proud conservatives.
(Applause.)
Remember when I first
started running?
Because I wasn't
a politician, fortunately.
But do you remember I started
running and people would say,
Are you sure he's
a conservative?
I think now we've proved
that I'm a conservative, right?
(Applause.)
For more than four decades,
this event has served
as a forum for our nation's
top leaders,
activists, writers, thinkers.
Year after year, leaders
have stood on this stage
to discuss what
we can do together
to protect our heritage,
to promote our culture,
and to defend our freedom.
CPAC has always been
about big ideas
and it's also been about
putting those ideas into action.
And CPAC really has put
a lot of ideas into action.
We'll talk about some
of them this morning.
For the last year,
with your help,
we have put more great
conservative ideas into use
than perhaps ever before
in American history.
(Applause.)
Right?
By the way, what a nice picture
that is, look at that.
I'd love to watch
that guy speak.
(Laughter.)
Oh, boy.
That's a --
I try like hell to hide
that bald spot, folks.
I work hard at it.
(Applause.)
It doesn't look bad -- hey, we're
hanging in, we're hanging in.
We're hanging in there, right?
Together, we're hanging in.
We've confirmed
a record number --
so important --
of circuit court judges,
and we are going to be
putting in a lot more.
(Applause.)
And they will interpret
the law as written.
And we've confirmed
an incredible new
Supreme Court justice,
a great man, Neil Gorsuch.
(Applause.)
Right?
We've passed massive --
biggest in history --
tax cuts and reforms.
(Applause.)
You know, I don't use
the word reform.
There was a lot of reform, too.
Very positive reform,
I don't use it.
And when we were first doing it,
I told everybody --
everybody gathered --
I said,  Just talk
about tax cuts.
People don't know
what reform means.
They think reform
might mean it's going up.
And I said,
"Do tax cuts."
Audience Member:  (Inaudible.)
Audience: Booo --
Audience Member: (Inaudible.)
Audience: USA! USA! USA!
The President: Thank you,
how did he get in here, Matt?
Boy, okay.
Just for the media,
the fake news back there,
they took very good care of him.
They were very gentle.
(Laughter.)
He was very obnoxious,
it was only one person.
So, we have thousands
of people here.
(Applause.)
So, listen -- tomorrow,
the headline will be,
Protestors disturbed
the Trump -- one person, folks.
Doesn't deserve a mention.
Doesn't deserve a headline.
The headline tomorrow:
Disrupters of CPAC.
One person.
And he was very nice --
we looked at him,
and he immediately left, okay.
(Laughter and applause.)
No, I've had it too often.
You'll have one person, and you
can hardly even hear him.
In fact, the biggest, really,
disturbance are you people.
You know why, he'll say
something; nobody hears him.
Because it's all --
and then the crowd
will start screaming at him.
And then all of a sudden,
we stop for -- and that's okay.
You have to show
your spirit, right?
your spirit, it's true.
(Applause.)
So, we passed
the biggest tax cuts
in the history of our country.
And it was called
tax cut and reform.
And I said to our people,
don't use the word  reform.
Because we were going to
call it the Tax Reform Act.
I said, "No wonder for 45 years
nothing has been passed."
Because people want tax cuts,
and they don't know
what reform means.
Reform can mean you're
going to pay more tax.
So, I convinced politicians
who have done this
all their lives --
and they do a great job,
in many cases --
but this was one --
they were going,
the  Tax Reform Act
of whatever year we want to put.
Okay?
So, they have the Tax
Reform Act, and that was it.
And now it was called the Tax
Act -- Tax Cut Act and Jobs.
We had to add  jobs  into it
because we're picking up
a tremendous number of jobs --
2.7 million jobs
since the election.
2.7.
(Applause.)
So, now, people hear tax cuts,
and it has been popular.
Remember, it started off
a little slow.
Then it got passed,
and we had some great help.
I will say, we had some great
help in the Senate,
in the House.
We have guys here today --
we have a lot of congressmen,
we have a lot of senators.
We had a lot of help,
and we got it passed.
Just -- it was not easy.
We didn't have
one Democrat vote,
and I think that's going to
cost them in the midterms.
I know that whoever wins the
presidency has a disadvantage,
for whatever reason,
in the midterms.
You know what happens?
I'm trying to figure it out.
Because historically,
if you win the presidency,
you don't do well
two years later.
And you know what?
We can't let that happen.
(Applause.)
And I know what happens,
I finally figured it out.
Nobody has been able
to explain it.
It just happens, statistically,
almost all of the time
for many years.
What happens is, you fight
so hard to win the presidency.
You fight, fight, fight.
And now only two years --
that's a very short period.
And by the time you start
campaigning, it's a year.
And now you got to go
and fight again.
But you just won.
So, nobody has that
same drive that they had.
So, you end up
not doing that well
because the other side
is going -- they're crazed.
And, by the way, they're crazed
anyway, these people.
They are really crazed.
(Laughter and applause.)
Right?
So -- because I kept trying
to say, "Why is this?"
But it's just there.
So, the great enthusiasm --
you know, you're sitting back,
you're watching television.
Maybe I don't have
to vote today;
we just won the presidency.
And then we get clobbered,
and we can't let that happen.
We get clobbered in '18,
and we can't let that happen --
only because we are so happy,
we passed so many things.
Honestly, and I'll say --
I'll use the word
my administration
as opposed to me --
my administration, I think,
has had the most
successful first year
in the history
of the presidency.
I really believe that.
I really believe it.
(Applause.)
So, I mean, judges,
regulations, everything.
And the beautiful thing
about the tax cuts
is nobody thought
we could do it.
Because again, we had to get
100 percent of our vote.
And nobody thought
we could do it.
And, frankly --
I mean, to me we got it
and it's turned out to be
one of the most popular things.
And, by the way, for the
Republicans in this room,
of which I assume --
would you say,
is it 99 percent, Matt,
or 100 percent? Huh?
I would hope it's close to --
you know what, hey,
we probably have some Democrats
that want to come over.
We have a great governor
from West Virginia
that left
the Democratic Party --
Big Jim --
and he came over
to the Republican Party.
(Applause.)
So, people are sitting there,
and they're saying,
Oh, we just had
that great victory.
Eh, let's not vote,
let's go to a movie.
We're the Republican Party,
we're going to do great.
And then they end up losing.
So, you got to keep up
the enthusiasm.
Now what happens,
by the way, they lose.
And then you have
the presidential election
coming up again,
and you clobber them because
everybody gets off their ass
and they get out and they work.
Right? And they work.
And they work and work and work.
And you end up winning
the Presidency again.
And we should do that --
hopefully we're going
to do that very easily.
But never -- we have to worry --
right now, we have a big race
coming up in '18.
You have to get out. You have
to just get that enthusiasm.
Keep it going.
(Applause.)
See, the word, really,
is  complacent.
People get complacent.
It's a natural instinct.
You just won, and now you're
happy and you're complacent.
Don't be complacent, okay,
don't be complacent.
Because if they get in,
they will repeal your tax cuts,
they will put judges in that
you wouldn't believe,
they'll take away
your Second Amendment,
which we will never
allow to happen.
They'll take away your
Second Amendment.
(Applause.)
Audience:  Donald Trump!
Donald Trump!
The President:  Remember that.
They will take away --
thank you.
They will take away
those massive tax cuts
and they will take away
your Second Amendment.
By the way, if you only had
a choice of one,
what would you rather have?
The Second Amendment
or the tax cuts?
Go ahead, Second Amendment,
tax cuts.
Second Amendment.
(Applause.)
I'm going to leave it
at the Second Amendment.
I don't want to get into
that battle, all right?
We're going to say you want --
Matt, we're going to say
you want the
Second Amendment the most.
But we're going to get them all.
And remember this --
(Applause.)
-- remember this, we've gotten
-- you know,
somebody got on
television recently
and they said, actually, this is
the first time I can remember --
Trump made campaign promises.
He may be the only person
that actually fulfilled
more promises than he made.
I think that's true.
(Applause.)
I fulfilled more promises.
But we have
a very crooked media.
We had a crooked candidate,
too, by the way.
But we have a very,
very crooked media.
Audience: Lock her up!
Lock her up!
The President: I will
say this, folks,
everything that's turning out,
now it's amazing
that's come full circle.
Boy, have they committed a lot
of atrocities when you look.
(Applause.)
Right, when you look.
Have they done things
that are wrong.
But remember this, not only did
we get the tax cuts,
which everybody said
we wouldn't get --
and, by the way, repealed,
in that tax cut,
the individual mandate,
which is a tremendous thing.
(Applause.)
This is where you're forced
to pay in order
not to have healthcare, okay?
Is that great?
You pay for the privilege
of not having healthcare.
So, you're subsidizing
lots of other people.
That's gone.
I know people came up to me
with tears in their eyes;
they're saying, I'm forced
to pay not to have healthcare.
Very unfair.
And, by the way, we're having
tremendous plans
coming out now --
healthcare plans --
at a fraction of the cost that
are much better than Obamacare.
(Applause.)
And except for one Senator,
who came into a room
at 3 o'clock
in the morning
and went like that -- we would
have had healthcare, too.
Audience:  Booo --
The President:  We would have
had healthcare, too.
Think of that.
But I think we may be better
off the way we're doing it.
It's piece by piece by piece.
Obamacare is just
being wiped out.
The individual mandate,
essentially, wipes it out.
So, I think we may
be better off.
And people are getting
great healthcare plans
and we're not finished yet.
But, remember, one person
walked into a room
when he was supposed
to go this way,
and he said he was going
this way, and he walked in,
and he went this way,
and everyone said,
"What happened?"
"What was that all about?"
Boy, oh, boy,
who was that?
I don't know, I don't know,
I don't know.
I don't want
to be controversial,
so I won't use his name, okay?
(Laughter.)
What a mess,
but it's all happening anyway.
It's all happening anyway.
And we've, at the same time,
eliminated a record number
of job-killing regulations,
and people are
going back to work.
(Applause.)
Right, people are
going back to work.
So -- and you know,
the fake news always --
if I say something that's like,
a little off, next day headline,
He misrepresents --
I have to be careful.
But in the history of
Presidents, no President --
and I'm saying no President.
Now, maybe they'll find
I was off by two
but we're here one year.
No President --
well, I read it in lots
of good papers, actually.
(Laughter.)
But they'll change the story
when I say it.
No President has ever
cut so many regulations
in their entire term, okay --
(Applause.)
-- as we've cut in less
than a year.
(Applause.)
And it's my opinion that the
regulations had as big an impact
as these massive tax
cuts that we've given.
So, I really believe it.
(Applause.)
We've ended the war on
American energy -- we were in war.
And we've ended the war
on beautiful, clean coal.
(Applause.)
One of our great
natural resources.
And very important
for our defense -- coal --
very important for our defense.
Because we have it.
We don't have to
send it through pipes.
We don't have to get it
from foreign countries.
We have more than anybody,
and they wanted to end it.
And our miners
have been mistreated
and they're not being
mistreated anymore.
We're doing tremendous business.
(Applause.)
I was in Vietnam,
and the Prime Minister
and the President
of Vietnam were there.
And we have a massive
deficit with them,
like we do with everybody else
because these Presidents
have just let it go to hell.
We have the worst trade
deals you've ever seen.
So, we're changing it.
So, I said, we have too big
of a deficit with Vietnam;
I'm not happy.
He said, "Well, but
we're going to --"
I said, "Buy coal, buy coal.
They use a lot of coal,
buy coal."
And he said,  You know, we have
bought coal from West Virginia
and other places,
and it's the finest coal
we have ever used.
It's interesting.
And West Virginia
now is doing great.
You look at what's
happening in West Virginia.
happening in Pennsylvania.
You look at what's
happening in Ohio.
And you look at what's
happening in Wyoming.
You look at what's
happening all over.
It's like a --
it's like a different world.
And remember this: Virtually,
as soon as I got into office,
we approved
the Keystone XL pipeline
and the Dakota Access pipeline,
which would never
have been approved.
(Applause.)
And we announced our withdrawal
from the totally disastrous,
job-killing,
wealth-knocking-out --
you know, it knocked out
our wealth, or it would have.
They basically wanted
to take our wealth away.
They didn't want us
to use our wealth power.
We knocked out
the Paris Climate Accord.
Would have been a disaster.
(Applause.)
Would have been a disaster
for our country.
Audience:  USA! USA! USA!
The President:  You know,
basically, it said,
you have a lot of oil
and gas that we found --
you know, technology
has been amazing --
and we found things
that we never knew.
But we have massive --
just about the top
in the world --
we have massive energy reserves.
We have coal,
we have so much.
And basically, they were saying,
don't use it, you can't use it.
So, what it does is it
makes us uncompetitive
with other countries.
It's not going to happen.
I told them,
it's not going to happen.
And, you know, China,
their agreement didn't
kick in until 2030.
Right? Our agreement
kicks in immediately.
Russia, they're allowed
to go back into the 1990s,
which was not a clean
environmental time.
Other countries, big countries
-- India and others --
we had to pay,
because they considered
them a growing country.
They were a growing country.
I said,  What are we?
Are we allowed
to grow too, okay?
(Laughter.)
Now, are we allowed to grow?
(Applause.)
They called India
a  developing nation.
They called China
But the United States,
we're developed -- we can pay.
So, folks, if you don't mind --
I'll tell you what --
it's amazing how many people
understood the Paris Accord,
because it sounds so good.
It's like some of the
environmental regulations
that I cut -- they have
the most beautiful titles.
And sometimes I'd say,
"Look, I'm just going
to close my eyes and sign this
because, you know what,
I'm going to get
killed on this one."
And I get so much thanks.
The country knows
what I'm doing.
We couldn't build.
We couldn't farm.
If you had a puddle
on your land,
they called it a lake for
the purposes of environmentals.
(Applause.)
I mean, it's crazy. It's crazy.
And I'd sign certain bills
and I'd have farmers behind me
and I'd have house builders,
home builders behind me.
And these are tough people,
strong people.
They fought hard, they've worked
all their lives, hard.
And they'd be --
half of them would be crying
because we gave them
their property back.
We gave them the right to earn
a living, they couldn't do it.
They couldn't do
what they had to do.
We gave them
their property back.
We gave them their dignity back.
(Applause.)
By the way, you don't mind
if I go off script a little bit
because, you know,
it's sort of boring.
It's a little boring.
(Applause.)
Got this beautiful speech,
everything is wonderful
but a little boring.
We have to, you know --
But we gave them
their dignity back.
And that's why our country
is doing record business.
We're doing record business.
We're doing business --
and you have to look
at the fundamentals.
Companies are pouring
back into this country.
They're pouring back.
Not like --
I mean, when did you hear
about car companies
coming back into Michigan
and coming to Ohio
and expanding?
(Applause.)
When did you hear --
you never heard that.
You hear they're leaving.
I've been talking
about it for 20 years.
I was a private sector guy.
But for whatever reason,
I always had --
these guys always covered me
much more than anybody else.
I always got a lot
of these characters.
They used to treat me so good
too, until I ran for office.
I used to get
the greatest publicity.
A friend of mine said,
"You know,
you used to be the king
of getting great publicity,
what happened?"
I said, "Well, I have some views
that they're opposed to
for a lot of bad reasons."
(Laughter.)
A lot of really bad reasons.
But when you look at what's
happening to our country,
it's incredible.
And the fundamentals
are so strong.
The stock market -- I just see
with all of the ups and downs --
since Election Day,
is up 37 percent
from Election -- 37 percent.
(Applause.)
Now, it did a little bit
of a correction.
In fact, I started to say --
you know,
I was in it for like 13,
14 months from election.
I say, "Is this sucker
ever going down a little bit?
This is a little embarrassing."
It was up 100, up 200,
up 1,000, up 150, up 90, up 63.
I said, "Good, that's better."
(Laughter.)
You know, hey, we've got
seven years to go, folks.
You know, we got
a long time to go.
(Applause.)
So, thank you, everybody.
You've been amazing,
you've been amazing.
You know what Matt didn't say --
when I was here in 2011,
I made a speech,
and I was received
with such warmth.
And they give --
they used to give --
I don't know if Matt does that
because he might not want
to be controversial,
but they used to give
the best speech of CPAC.
Do they do that still, Matt?
Because you better pick me
or I'm not coming back again.
(Laughter.)
But -- and I got these --
everybody,
they loved that speech.
And that was, I think, Matt --
I would say,
that might have been
the first real
political speech that I made.
It was a love fest -- 2011,
I believe the time was --
and a lot of people remembered,
and they said, "We want Trump,
we want Trump."
And after a few years,
they go by,
and I say, "Here we are,
let's see what we can do."
And then everybody said,
"He cannot get elected.
He cannot do it,
you need 270 votes."
You need Electoral College --
which, by the way, is much
tougher than the popular vote.
The popular vote, actually,
would be so much easier.
You go three or four states,
and you just go,
and you just do great job.
Hillary forgets that. You know,
she went to these states.
I said, "What's she doing?
Why does she keep going
back to California?"
(Laughter.)
Crazy.
Next time, they're going
to remember Iowa.
They're going to remember Ohio.
(Applause.)
Remember?
They spent a lot of time
in Pennsylvania to no avail.
(Applause.)
They spent a lot of money.
They spent a lot of money
in North Carolina,
the great state
of North Carolina.
(Applause.)
We did very well there.
We have a great person
in the room,
Mark Meadows,
from North Carolina.
(Applause.)
He's around here -- where's Mark?
Where's Mark?
And Deb.
And we have Jim Jordan --
Warriors, warriors all.
(Applause.)
We have a lot of great -- we
have a lot of great people here.
But, you know, we just --
we hit a chord.
And if you remember, 2011,
probably that was the beginning
of what we've done.
And hopefully, at the end
of a period of time,
people are going to say thank
you, because it is not easy.
We're fighting a lot of forces.
They're forces that are
doing the wrong thing.
They're just doing
the wrong thing.
I don't want to talk about
what they have in mind.
But they do the wrong thing.
But we're doing what's good
for our country
for the long-term
viability and survival.
Like, for instance, $700 billion
got approved for our military.
Our military was going to hell.
(Applause.)
We declined to certify
the terrible one-sided
Iran nuclear deal.
That was a horrible deal.
(Applause.)
Whoever heard you give
$150 billion to a nation
that has no respect
for you whatsoever?
They're saying
Death to America
while they're signing
the agreement.
If somebody said
Death to America
while I'm signing an agreement,
and I'm President,
I immediately say,
What's going on here,
folks, I'm not signing.
(Laughter.)
What's going on --
they just kept going.
Kerry -- Kerry may be the worst
negotiator I've ever seen.
(Laughter.)
How about this guy --
how about --
and Obama, of course --
he's the one.
But how about
$1.8 billion in cash?
Did you ever see what, like,
a million dollars
in hundred-dollar bills?
A lot of people do it
as a promotion.
It's a lot. It's big.
It's like big.
(Laughter.)
Now, take that, go to
$1.8 billion in cash.
$1.8 billion.
For what, for what?
Why did we do this?
Why did we do it?
Anyway, we didn't certify,
and lots of interesting things
are happening with
that whole mess.
But we have to treat --
people that treat us well,
we treat them well.
People that treat us badly,
we treat them much worse
than they can ever imagine,
that's the way it has to be.
(Applause.)
That's the way it has to be.
We officially
recognized Jerusalem
as the capital of Israel.
(Applause.)
You know, every President
campaigned on,
We're going to
recognize Jerusalem
as the capital of Israel.
Everybody -- for many Presidents
-- you've been reading it.
And then they never
pulled it off.
And I now know why.
Because I put the word out
that I may do it, right?
I said, I'd do it
in my campaign,
so that usually means --
unless I find something --
I'm going to do it.
I was hit by more countries
and more pressure
and more people calling,
begging me,
Don't do it. Don't do it.
Don't do it.
I said, "We have to do it,
it's the right thing to do.
It's the right thing to do,
we have to do it."
(Applause.)
And I did it.
But every other President
really lied,
because they campaigned on it.
That was always a big part
of the campaign.
And then they got into office;
they never did it.
So, I understand
why they didn't do it.
Because there was tremendous --
the campaign against it
was so incredible.
But you know what? The campaign
for it was also incredible,
and we did the right thing.
(Applause.)
So, we've kept our promise, as I
said, to rebuild our military,
eliminating the defense
sequester, which is a disaster.
And I don't know if you saw
the number, $700 billion.
You know, ultimately, that comes
before everything else.
We can talk about
lots of things.
But if we don't have
a strong military,
you might not be allowed
into this room someday.
Okay?
You may not have
your houses, your homes,
your beautiful communities.
We better take care
of our military.
These are the greatest people,
and we're going to take
care of our veterans.
We're going to take
care of the vets.
We've been doing
a good job on the vets.
And after years of rebuilding
other nations --
we rebuild other nations --
we rebuild other nations
that have a lot of money,
and we don't ever say,
Hey, you got to help.
We're finally
rebuilding our nation.
We're rebuilding our nation.
(Applause.)
And we're restoring
our confidence and our pride.
All of us here today are united
by the same timeless values.
We defend our Constitution,
and we believe in the wisdom
of our Founders.
Our Constitution is great.
(Applause.)
We support the incredible men
and women of law enforcement.
(Applause.)
True.
We know that a strong nation
must have strong borders.
We celebrate our history
and our heroes,
and we believe young Americans
should be taught
to love their country
and to respect its traditions.
Don't worry,
you're getting the wall.
Don't worry, okay,
I heard some --
(Applause.)
-- we're getting the wall.
Audience: Build that wall!
Build that wall!
The President: I had a couple
of these characters
in the back say,
Oh, he really doesn't
want the wall.
He just used that
for campaigning.
I said, are you --
can you believe it?
(Laughter.)
You know, I say,
every time I hear that,
the wall gets 10 feet higher.
You know that, right?
(Applause.)
Every time,
every single time, okay?
No, we're going to have the wall
or they're not going
to have what they want.
You know, we have a problem,
we need more Republicans.
We have a group of people
that vote against us in a bloc.
They're good at two things,
resisting, obstruction.
Resisting, obstruction.
And they stick together,
they do.
They always vote in a bloc.
You know, it's very rare
that you get a couple of them
to come your way.
Even on the tax cuts.
I mean, we're going to be
fighting these people
in the '18 election.
We're going to be
fighting people
that voted against the tax cuts,
because the tax cuts
are phenomenal and popular,
and helping people
and helping our country.
You saw Apple just brought
$350 billion in;
Exxon brought $50 billion in.
(Applause.)
So, we're going to be fighting.
The fact is, we need more
Republicans to vote.
(Applause.)
We want to get our agenda.
Because, now, what we have to do
is in order to get a vote
to fix our military,
we have to give them
$100 billion
in stuff that nobody
in this room,
including me, wants,
in many cases.
It's terrible,
we need more Republicans.
That's why you have to get out
and you have to fight for '18.
You have to do it.
We salute our great
American flag,
we put our hands on our hearts
for the Pledge of Allegiance.
(Applause.)
And we all proudly stand
for the national anthem.
(Applause.)
Audience:  USA! USA! USA!
The President:  Above all else,
we know that faith and family,
not government and bureaucracy,
are at the center
of American life.
We know that.
(Applause.)
Because in America, we don't
worship government,
we worship God.
(Applause.)
Our nation's motto is,
"In God We Trust."
(Applause.)
And this week, our nation
lost an incredible leader
who devoted his life
to helping us understand
what those words
really mean. Leader.
He was a leader.
He was a great man.
We will never forget
the historic crowds,
that voice, the energy,
and the profound faith of
a preacher named Billy Graham.
(Applause.)
Great man and great family --
Franklin Graham, great family.
And they were for us --
I'll tell you, they were for us.
Right from the beginning
they were for us.
As a young man, Billy decided
to devote his life to God.
That choice not only changed his
life, it changed our country.
And indeed, it even
changed the world.
Reverend Graham's belief
in the power of God's word
gave hope to millions
and millions who listened to him
with his very beautiful,
but very simple message,
God loves you.
(Applause.)
And a very special tribute --
because it's almost
never done --
on Wednesday, we will
celebrate Billy Graham's life
as he lies in honor
in the Rotunda of our Capitol.
(Applause.)
Very rarely.
One day -- Wednesday
until Thursday,
about 11 o'clock on Wednesday.
I bet those lines are going
to be long and beautiful,
because he deserves it.
Not everybody deserves it.
But very few people --
you look back,
Ronald Reagan was so honored.
Very few people are so honored,
that's a big thing.
And he really, almost more
than anybody you can think of,
he deserves to be
in the Rotunda.
So, that's going
to be very special.
Wednesday at 11 o'clock.
(Applause.)
And Paul, and Mitch,
and the whole group,
they worked very hard
to make it all happen.
So, we want to thank them too.
Everywhere you go,
all over the country,
in cities small and large,
Americans of all faiths
reach out to our Creator
for strength, for inspiration,
and for healing.
Great time for healing.
In times of grief and hardship,
we turn to prayer
for solace and for comfort.
In recent days, our entire
nation has been filled
with terrible pain and sorrow
over the evil massacre
in a great community --
Parkland, Florida.
This senseless act
of mass murder
has shocked our nation
and broken our hearts.
This week, I had the honor
of meeting with students
from Marjory Stoneman
Douglas High School,
with families who have
lost their children
in prior shootings --
great families,
great people --
and with members of
the local community
right here in Washington, D.C.
Our whole nation was moved
by their strength
and by their courage.
We listened to their
heart-wrenching stories,
asked them for ideas,
and pledged to them --
and I can speak
for all of the senators
and congressmen
and congresswomen,
all of the people in this room
that are involved
in this decision --
that we will act.
We will do something.
We will act.
With us on Wednesday
was one of the families
whose daughter didn't
come home last week --
a beautiful young woman
named Meadow Pollack.
Incredible family,
I had them in the Oval Office.
Incredible people.
You've probably
seen her picture.
She had a beautiful,
beautiful smile,
and a beautiful life.
So full of promise.
We wish there was
something -- anything --
we could do to bring Meadow
and all of the others back.
There are not enough
tears in the world
to express our sadness
and anguish for her family,
and for every family that has
lost a precious loved one.
No family should ever save --
and ever have to go in
and suffer the way
these families have suffered.
They've suffered beyond anything
that I've ever witnessed.
A father drops his daughter
off at school,
kisses her goodbye,
waves to her --
she's walking up the path --
and never sees her alive again.
Gets a call, can't believe it.
Thinks it's a nightmare.
Wants to wake up
from the nightmare.
So, we want to hear ideas
from Americans
of all backgrounds and beliefs
about how we can improve
security at our schools,
tackle the issue
of mental health.
Because this was a sick
person -- very sick --
and we had a lot of warning
about him being sick.
This wasn't a surprise.
To the people that knew him,
this wasn't even a little bit;
in fact, some said,
were surprised it took so long.
So, what are we doing --
what are we doing?
We want to ensure that
when there are warning signs,
we can act and act very quickly.
Why do we protect our airports,
and our banks,
our government buildings,
but not our schools?
(Applause.)
It's time to make our schools
a much harder target
for attackers.
We don't want them
in our schools.
(Applause.)
We don't want them.
When we declare our schools
to be gun-free zones,
it just puts our students
in far more danger.
(Applause.)
Far more danger.
Well-trained, gun-adept
teachers and coaches
and people that work
in those buildings;
people that were in the Marines
for 20 years and retired;
people in the Army, the Navy,
the Air Force, the Coast Guard;
people that are adept --
adept with weaponry
and with guns -- they teach.
I mean, I don't want
to have 100 guards
standing with rifles
all over the school.
You do a concealed carry permit.
(Applause.)
And this would be
a major deterrent
because these people
are inherently cowards.
If they thought --
like, if this guy thought
that other people
would be shooting bullets
back at him,
he wouldn't have gone
to that school.
He wouldn't have gone there,
it's a gun-free zone.
It says, this is
a gun-free zone;
please check your guns
way far away.
And what happens
is they feel safe.
There's nobody going
to come at them.
This way, you may have --
and remember,
if you use this school
as an example --
this is a very big school
with tremendous floor area
and a lot of acreage.
It's a big, big school,
good school, a big, big school.
You'd have to have
150 real guards.
Look, you had one guard.
He didn't turn out
to be too good,
I will tell you that.
He turned out to be not good.
He was not a credit
to law enforcement,
that I can tell you.
That I can tell you.
(Applause.)
But as I've been talking
about this idea --
and I feel it's a great idea,
but some people that are
good people are opposed to it;
they don't like the idea
of teachers doing it.
But I'm not talking
about teachers.
You know, CNN went on,
they said,
Donald Trump
wants all teachers.
Okay, fake news, folks,
fake news, fake news.
I don't want a person
that's never handled a gun
that wouldn't know what a gun
looks like to be armed.
But out of your
teaching population --
out of your teaching population,
you have 10 percent,
20 percent of
very gun-adept people.
Military people,
law enforcement people,
they teach,
they teach.
(Applause.)
And something I thought of this
morning. You know what else?
And I thought of it since
I found and watched Peterson,
the deputy who didn't
go into the school
because he didn't want
to go into the school.
Okay, he was tested under fire,
and that wasn't a good result.
But you know what I thought
of as soon as I saw that?
These teachers -- and I've seen
them at a lot of schools
where they had problems --
these teachers love
their students.
And the students love
their teachers, in many cases.
These teachers love
their students.
And these teachers
are talented with weaponry
and with guns.
And they feel safe.
And I'd rather have somebody
that loves their students
and wants to protect
their students
than somebody standing outside
that doesn't know anybody
and doesn't know the students,
and, frankly,
for whatever reason,
decided not to go in even though
he heard lots of shots
being fired inside.
The teachers and the coaches and
other people in the building --
the dean, the assistant dean,
the principal --
they can --
they love their people.
They want to protect these kids.
And I think we're
better with that.
And this may be
10 percent or 20 percent
of the population
of teachers, et cetera.
It's not all of them.
But you would have a lot,
and you would tell people
that they're inside.
And the beauty is,
it's concealed.
Nobody would ever see it
unless they needed it.
It's concealed.
So, this crazy man who walked in
wouldn't even know
who it is that has it.
That's good.
That's not bad; that's good.
And a teacher would have
shot the hell out of him
before he knew what happened.
(Applause.)
They love their students.
They love those students, folks.
Remember that.
They love their students.
And I'm telling you
that would work.
Because we need
offensive capability.
We can't just say, oh,
it's a gun-free school.
We're going to do it
a little bit better.
Because then you say,
What happens outside?
The students now leave school,
and you got
a thousand students --
you got 3,500 at the school
we're talking about --
but you have a thousand
students standing outside.
The teachers are out there also.
If a madman comes along,
we have the same problem,
but it's outside of the school.
Or they drive cars.
There are a lot of things
that can happen.
I want to stop it.
And I know it's a little
controversial to say --
but I have to say, since
I started this two days ago,
a lot of people that were
totally opposed to it
are now agreeing.
They love their students.
They don't want their students
to be killed or to be hurt.
(Applause.)
So, we have to do
something that works.
And one of the big measures
that we will do,
and everybody in this room
I think has to agree --
and there's nobody that loves
the Second Amendment
more than I do.
And there's nobody
that respects the NRA --
they're friends of mine.
They backed us all.
They're great people,
they're patriots.
But they're great people, but we
really do have to strengthen up,
really strengthen up
background checks.
We have to do that.
(Applause.)
And we have to do --
for the mentally ill,
we have to do very, very --
we don't want to people
that are mentally ill
to be having any
form of weaponry.
We have to be
very strong on that.
(Applause.)
So, we're going to do that.
And I really believe
that Congress
is going to get it
through this time.
And they have
a different leader.
They have somebody
that wants to get it through;
not somebody that's just
all talk, no action,
like so many of these folks.
This is somebody that
wants to get it through.
But I also want to protect --
we need a hardened site.
It has to be hardened.
It can't be soft.
Because they'll sneak in
through a window,
they'll sneak in some way.
And, again, you're standing
there totally unprotected.
You know the five great soldiers
from four years ago,
three of them were
world-class marksmen.
They were on a military base
in a gun-free zone.
They were asked to check
their guns quite far away.
And a maniac walked in,
guns blazing,
killed all of five of them.
He wouldn't have had a chance
if these world-class marksmen
had -- on a military base --
access to their guns.
And I'm going to look at that
whole policy on military bases.
If we can't have --
(Applause.)
-- all five were killed.
All five, the guy wouldn't
have had a chance.
But we're going to look at
that whole military base,
gun-free zone.
If we can't have our military
holding guns, it's pretty bad.
We had a number of instances
on military bases.
You know that, so, we want
to protect our military.
We want to make
our military stronger
and better than
it's ever been before.
(Applause.)
We also need to create
a culture in our country
that cherishes life
and human dignity.
That's part of what
we're talking about.
A culture that condemns violence
and never glorifies violence.
We need to foster real
human connections
and turn classmates
and colleagues
into friends and neighbors
that want to fight for us.
We're not just having
a conversation
about school safety.
You've had conversations --
in all fairness,
I'm pretty new on this job.
We're here a little
more than a year.
I've been watching this stuff
go on for 20 years.
The President gets up,
everybody is enthusiastic
for the first couple of days,
then it fades, fades, fades.
Nothing ever gets done.
We want to see
if we can get it done.
Let's get it done right.
We really owe it to our country.
And I've been watching
for a long time.
Seen a lot of words, and
I've seen very little action.
And, you know,
if you think about,
most of its just common sense.
It's not  do you love guns,
do hate guns.
It's common sense,
it's all common sense.
And some of the strongest
advocates about
what I'm saying
are the strongest advocates --
I know them very well --
political people --
the strongest advocates
for the Second Amendment.
But this is common sense.
In addition to securing
our schools,
we're also implementing a
strategy to secure our streets.
We want our kids to be
safe everywhere they go,
whether they're in a classroom
walking home from school
or just outside playing
with their friends.
(Applause.)
Every child deserves to grow up
in a safe community
surrounded by a loving family
and to have a future filled
with opportunity and with hope.
(Applause.)
Thank you, thank you,
just not fair.
Reducing violent
crime in America
is a top priority
for my administration,
and we will do whatever
it takes to get it done.
No talk. We're going to do
what it takes to get it done.
(Applause.)
As you've seen,
pretty well reported,
that we're significantly
increasing gun prosecutions
by tremendous percentages,
and we're working to get
violent offenders
off our streets
and behind bars,
and get them behind bars
quickly, for a long time,
or get them the hell
out of our country.
(Applause.)
In 2017, we brought cases
against more violent offenders
than any administration
in a quarter of a century --
more than any administration.
And we're just gearing up.
We have tough people.
I'll tell you what --
when you deal with MS-13,
the only thing they
understand is toughness.
They don't want anything.
All they understand
is toughness.
If that ICE agent
or Border Patrol agent
is tougher than them,
they respect him.
We got the toughest guys
you've ever seen.
We got tough.
(Applause.)
They don't respect
anything else.
And they shouldn't
be in our country.
They were let in for years.
They shouldn't be,
and we're getting them out.
Our administration
prosecuted more people
for federal firearm charges
than has been done
in more than a decade.
And again, we're
just gearing up.
We've convicted
1,200 gang members
and nearly 500
human traffickers.
You know what human
trafficking --
who would think that
we have this in this age?
And with our foreign partners,
we've helped charge or arrest
more than 4,000 members
of the savage gang
that we talked about -- MS-13.
Now, they don't like guns,
you know why?
They're not painful enough.
These are animals;
they cut people, they cut them.
They cut them up
in little pieces
and they want them to suffer.
And we take them
into our country
because our immigration
laws are so bad.
And when we catch them --
it's called catch-and-release --
we have to, by law, catch them
and then release them.
Catch-and-release.
And I can't get the Democrats --
and nobody has been
able to for years --
to approve common-sense
measures that,
when we catch these
animal-killers,
we can lock them up
and throw away the keys.
(Applause.)
In 2017, our brave ICE officers
arrested more than
100,000 criminal aliens
who have committed tens
of thousands of crimes.
And believe me,
these are great people.
They cannot -- the laws
are just against us.
They're against --
they're against safety.
They don't make sense.
And you meet with Democrats
and they're always fighting
for the criminal.
They're not fighting
for law-abiding citizens.
They're always fighting
for the criminal.
(Applause.)
Doesn't make sense.
Here are just some of the
criminal charges and convictions
for the aliens arrested by ICE:
11,000 charges or convictions
for sex crimes;
48,000 for assault;
13,000 for burglary;
and 1,800 for killing people.
We're cracking down on sanctuary
cities, can you believe this?
Where they protect --
that's another one.
Because we want our cities
to be sanctuaries
for law-abiding Americans,
not for criminals.
(Applause.)
And, by the way,
the Senate Democrats
and the House Democrats
have totally
abandoned DACA.
They've total -- they don't
even talk to me about it.
They have totally abandoned.
You know, we get
the reputation -- like
DACA, it's not Republican.
We'll let me tell you,
it is Republican,
because we want to do
something about DACA,
get it solved after
all these years.
The Democrats are being
totally unresponsive.
They don't want to do anything
about DACA, I'm telling you.
And it's very possible
that DACA won't happen,
and it's not because
of the Republicans,
it's going to be
because of the Democrats.
And frankly, you better elect
more Republicans, folks,
or it will never happen.
(Applause.)
The Democrats voted in favor
of sanctuary cities.
In other words, they voted
to protect criminal aliens
instead of voting to protect
the American citizens.
To secure our country,
we are calling on Congress
to build a great border wall
to stop dangerous
drugs and criminals
from pouring
into our country.
(Applause.)
And now they're willing
to give us the wall,
but they don't want
to give us any of the laws
to keep these people out.
So, we're going to get the wall,
but they don't want to
give us all of the other --
chain migration, lottery.
Think of a lottery.
You have a country,
they put names in.
You think they're giving us
their good people?
Not too many of you people
are going to be in a lottery.
So, we pick out people.
Then they turn out
to be horrendous,
and we don't understand why.
They're not giving us
their best people, folks.
They're not giving us --
I mean, use your heads.
They're giving us --
it's a lottery.
I don't want people coming into
this country with a lottery.
I want people coming into
this country based on merit.
Based on merit.
(Applause.)
I want people, and we all want
to be admitting people,
who have skills, who can support
themselves financially,
who can contribute
to our economy,
who will love our people,
and who will share our values,
who will love our country.
(Applause.)
I don't want people
who drive a car at 100 miles
an hour down
the West Side Highway
and kill 8 innocent victims
and destroy the lives
of 14 more.
Nobody talks about that.
Nobody ever talks
about the people
that have been
so horribly injured,
who lose legs and arms,
in Manhattan,
where I used to spend my time.
I know it very well, the stretch
along the West Side Highway.
People run in order
to stay in shape.
They want to be healthy,
they want to look good.
They're running
all the time; I see it.
They run.
We work in different ways.
(Laughter.)
But they run -- no, but think
of this -- they run.
And they're so --
they want to be fit.
They're proud people,
they want to be fit,
and they're running up
and down West Side Highway.
It's beautiful;
it's a beautiful thing.
And this maniac takes a car
going down the highway,
and just turns to a right,
and he kills eight.
But he really badly wounded
12 to 14 other people.
So, somebody think of it: Runs
to stay in shape,
leaves the house,
is jogging along,
working hard,
ends up going home
two months later with no leg
or with no arm,
or with two legs missing.
Nobody ever talks about that.
They talk about the people,
rightfully, that were killed.
But they don't talk
about the people
whose lives have been
just changed --
just changed.
They don't talk about that.
This guy came in through
chain migration
and a part of
the lottery system.
Audience:  Booo --
The President:  They say
22 people came in with him.
In other words, an aunt,
an uncle, a grandfather,
a mother, a father,
whoever came in.
But a lot of people came in.
That's chain migration.
Let's see how those people
are doing, by the way.
We've got to change our way.
Merit system --
I want merit system.
Because you know
what's happening?
All of these companies
are coming into our country.
They're all coming
into our country.
And when they come in, we need
people that are going to work.
I'm telling you, we need
workers now, we need workers.
(Applause.)
But when I walked in today,
did anyone ever hear me do
the snake during the campaign?
Because I had five
people outside say,
Could you do "The Snake?"
And I said, well,
people have heard it.
Who hasn't heard  The Snake ?
You should read it anyways.
Let's do it anyway, I'll do it
-- all right, should we do it?
(Applause.)
Now, this was a rock-and-roll
song -- little amendments --
a rock-and-roll song.
But every time I do it,
people --
and you have to think of this
in terms of immigration.
We have to have great
people come into our --
I want people to come
into our country.
And I want people
that are going to help us.
And I don't want people
that are going to come in
and be accepting all of
the gifts of our country
for the next 50 years
and contribute nothing.
I don't want that,
and you don't want that.
I want people that are
going to help and people
that are going
to work for Chrysler,
who is now moving
from Mexico into Michigan,
and so many other --
and Apple, by the way.
(Applause.)
And Foxconn up in Wisconsin.
They're going to need
25,000 workers.
I want people that can come in
and get to work and work hard.
Even if it means a learning
period -- that's fine.
But I want people that are
going to come in and work.
And I want people that love us
and look at security.
And they want you to be safe,
and they want to be safe.
I want great people
coming into this country.
I don't want people coming
in the way they do now,
because I want people
that contribute.
So, this is called 'The Snake."
And think of it
in terms of immigration.
And you may love it, or you
may say, isn't that terrible.
Okay? And if you say,
isn't that terrible, who cares?
Because the way they treat me --
that's peanuts compared
to the way they treat me.
Okay?
(Laughter.)
Immigration.
On her way to work one morning,
down the path along the lake,
a tenderhearted woman saw
a poor, half-hearted,
frozen snake.
His pretty colored skin had been
all frosted with the dew.
"Poor thing," she cried,
"I'll take you in,
and I'll take care of you."
"Take me in, oh, tender woman,
take me in, for Heaven's sake.
Take me in, oh, tender woman,"
sighed the vicious snake.
She wrapped him up all cozy
in a comforter of silk
and laid him by her fireside
with some honey and some milk.
She hurried home from work that
night, and soon as she arrived,
she found that pretty snake
she'd taken in had been revived.
"Take me in, oh, tender woman,
take me in for Heaven's sake.
Take me in, oh, tender woman,"
sighed the vicious snake.
She clutched him to her bosom,
"You're so beautiful,"
she cried.
"But if I hadn't
brought you in by now,
surely you would have died."
She stroked his pretty skin
again and kissed
and held him tight.
But instead of saying thank you,
that snake gave her
a vicious bite.
"Take me in, oh, tender woman,
take me in for Heaven's sake.
Take me in, oh, tender woman,"
sighed the vicious snake.
"I saved you," cried the woman.
"And you've bitten me.
Heaven's why?
You know your bite is poisonous,
and now I'm going to die."
"Oh, shut up, silly woman,"
said the reptile with a grin.
"You knew damn well I was
a snake before you took me in."
(Applause.)
And that's what we're doing
with our country, folks.
We're letting people in,
and it's going to be
a lot of trouble.
It's only getting worse.
But we're giving you
protection like never before.
Our law enforcement
is doing a better job
than we've ever done before.
And we love our country.
And we're going to take care
of our country, okay?
We're going to take care
of our country.
(Applause.)
So just in finishing,
our country is starting
to do very well.
Our economy is blazing.
Jobs are at a record level.
Jobs are so good.
2.7 million jobs created
since the election.
(Applause.)
Unemployment claims have
reached a 45-year low.
(Applause.)
African American
unemployment has reached
the lowest level
in our history.
(Applause.)
Hispanic unemployment
has reached the lowest level
in our history.
(Applause.)
Women -- women unemployment is
at the lowest level in 18 years.
(Applause.)
Wages are rising for the
first time in many, many years.
(Applause.)
Small business confidence
is at a record high.
And thanks to our
massive tax cuts,
millions of Americans
are getting to keep
a great percentage
of their money
instead of paying it
to a government
that throws it out the window.
(Applause.)
So, I just leave you with this:
We have to fight Nancy Pelosi.
They want to give
your money away.
They want to end your tax cuts.
They want to do things that
you wouldn't even believe,
including taking your
Second Amendment rights away.
They will do that.
Audience:  Booo --
The President:  So, we have
to get out there
and we have to fight in '18
like never before --
just the way you fought with us.
Just the way you fought with us.
You fought so hard, and you were
so tough, and you were so smart.
You were so smart,
and you know what?
I know for a fact
you did the right thing,
because we're looking
at the numbers.
And the numbers --
even they have to give credit
for the kind of numbers
that we're producing.
Nobody has ever seen
anything like it.
(Applause.)
Under my administration, the era
of economic surrender is over.
We're renegotiating trade
deals that are so bad,
whether it's NAFTA
or whether it's
World Trade Organization,
which created China --
that created --
if you look at China,
it was going along like this,
then we opened,
stupidly, this deal.
And China has been like
a rocket ship ever since.
And now, last year, we had
almost a $500 billion
trade deficit with China.
We can't have that.
I have great respect
for President Xi,
but we can't have that.
We have to go, and we have
to do what we have to do.
We just can't let countries --
as an example, Mexico.
We have a $100 billion
trade deficit with Mexico.
What does that tell you?
You know what it tells you?
NAFTA is no good.
It never was any good.
But for some reason,
nobody ever changed it.
They emptied our factories --
you got to see the car plants
and the auto plants in Mexico.
Like -- you've never seen
anything like it before.
I want those companies --
and they're starting --
I want them back here,
I want them back here.
They're going to come
back here, too.
(Applause.)
And we want to make
our neighbors happy.
But we can't continuously
have other nations
taking advantage of the
United States like never before.
And this has gone on
for a long time.
This has gone on for longer --
the last administration
was a disaster,
but this has gone on
for much longer
than the last administration.
And we got to change it,
we're going to change it.
So, we're renegotiating deals,
and you know what?
Hate to say it,
but if we can't make
a fair deal
for the United States,
we will terminate the deal
and we'll start all over again.
(Applause.)
We have to do it.
So, under my administration,
and with your help --
don't forget --
you, many of you,
were the forgotten people.
You were the people that,
when the polls came out,
they didn't know
that you existed.
The Democrats are trying
to figure out who you are,
because they want
to get you back.
But you are people -- we've had
people that never voted,
but they're great patriots --
but they never saw anybody
they wanted to vote for.
Then they go to the election,
they've got Trump-Pence,
Trump-Pence.
They got hats, they got
all sorts of things.
Trump over here -- Make America
Great Again hats, right?
(Applause.)
So, our country is
starting to do well.
We are going to
make it great, better,
safer than it ever was before.
The reason is you;
this has been a great movement.
They try like hell, they cannot
stand what we've done.
But we're doing the right thing.
We're even doing
the right thing for them.
They just don't know it yet.
(Applause.)
Even the media -- the media
will absolutely support me
sometime prior to the election.
All those horrible
people back there,
they're going to support me,
you know why?
Because if somebody else won,
their ratings would go down,
they'd all be out of business.
Nobody would watch,
So, I just want to tell you
that we are going to win.
I'd love you to get out there,
work really hard for '18.
We need more Republicans
to keep the tax cuts
and keep all of this going.
And I love you, I respect you.
I appreciate everything
you've done for the country.
(Applause.)
Audience:  USA! USA!
USA!
The President: I appreciate
everything you've done.
I do want to say, because people
have asked -- North Korea --
we imposed today
the heaviest sanctions
ever imposed
on a country before.
(Applause.)
And frankly, hopefully something
positive can happen.
We will see, but hopefully
something positive can happen.
But that just was announced,
and I wanted to let you know.
We have imposed the heaviest
sanctions ever imposed.
So, ladies and gentlemen,
thank you for everything.
You have been
incredible partners.
(Applause.)
Incredible partners.
And I will let you know in the
absolute strongest of terms,
we're going to make
America great again,
and I will never, ever, ever let
you down, thank you very much.
(Applause.)
Thank you.